content/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Introduction

Inference is key when using AI and models are only as useful as their ability to deliver fast, cost-effective, and scalable inference.
It is the inference process that allows to make decisions using large amounts of data. But scaling this up has proven to be difficult because of the high need for resources.

Some of the main challenges when it comes to scaling up inference are:

. Infrastructure cost.
. Operational complexities.
. Deployment constraints that make inference difficul across hybrid environments.

Because of the exponential growth of the capability and size of the models, more and more organizations want an efficient and standardized way to deploy their own, private AI solutions across environments and using several types of accelerators.

Red Hat AI Inference Server is a perfect solution because of its features:

. Fast.
. Cost-effective.
. Performance.
. It can serve most generative AI models.
. It can use most AI accelerators.
. It can be used on-premises as well as in public, private or hybrid cloud.

image::rhaiis.png[]

AI Inference Server is part of the overall Red Hat AI Platform. It has an enterprise-grade version of vLLM at its core. vLLM is an open-source library specifically designed to make inference and serve large language models (LLMs) significantly faster and being more memory-efficient than other solutions.

The other main component of Red Hat AI Inference Server is the LLM Compressor to reduce compute requirements and costs, while preserving model accuracy. This means faster and cheaper deployments.

Red Hat AI offers a repository of validated and optimized third-party models on Hugging Face. Ready-to-use and running efficiently on vLLM, these models provide organizations with faster time-to-value, promote consistency across teams, and enhance flexibility in choosing the best fit for their use cases. Validated models are third-party models that have been assessed for performance on vLLM and across a range of hardware using inference benchmarks and accuracy evaluations. Optimized models are third-party models that have been compressed for speed and efficiency, with the goal of improving performance while maintaining accuracy.

image::rhai.png[]

Commit message:

Corrected sections in CLA.adoc, updated index.adoc with introduction to both workshops. Deleted module-01

content/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Welcome

Red Hat welcomes you for this partner convergence workshop. 

We have two workshops lined up for you. 

1. Workshop 1 
This workshop introduces command-line-assistant powered by Red Hat Lightspeed. 

With Red Hat lightspeed, we are integrating Gen-AI within our enterprise products, so that customer's are well-equipped with all the Red Hat product knowledge within the product itself. 

You will install command line assistant, ask questions and get troubleshooting help from the CLA. 

Please proceed to Workshop 1 tab for the hands-on. 

2. Workshop 2 

Red Hat® AI is engineered to help you build and run AI solutions that work exactly how your business does—from first experiments to full production.

Red Hat offers a comprehensive suite of AI/ML solutions designed for enterprise environments. The Red Hat AI Inference Server (RHAIIS) supports efficient model serving at scale, while Red Hat OpenShift AI (RHOAI) provides an end-to-end platform for model development, training, and deployment. Together, they enable organizations to operationalize AI across hybrid cloud infrastructures.

image::rhai.png[]

In this workshop 2, we will serve a LLM and chat with it using curl and OpenAI API. We will also run small application with GUI, using RHAIIS server as backend. 

Please proceed to workshop 2 tab for the hands-on.
